number ten Greek fire ancient scientists
have given countless inventions to
humanity some inventions from ancient
times still remain a mystery though the
Greek fire used by the Byzantine Empire
in the seventh century is one of the
biggest secrets in science this was a
liquid substance thrown from ships it
was impossible to extinguish with water
and it spread quickly
this substance helped to defeat enemies
in many naval battles in fact it has
served an inspiration for the famous
wildfire on the series Game of Thrones
National Geographic got closer to making
this fire by the creation of a
flamethrower built with a brass tube and
a mixture of oil and pine resin however
there is a belief that the Greek fire
contained naphtha sulphur and ammonia
among other substances the components of
the Greek fire were a well-kept secret
nowadays historians and chemists
continue to look for the way to
reproduce the formula of the Greek fire
that seems to have lost in time Damascus
steel the Christian soldiers who fought
in the Crusades came across a type of
weapon that had never been seen before
the swords carried by the Islamic
military were constructed with the
Damascus steel the strength flexibility
and wave-like patterns made them
completely unique it is a fact that they
could cut a still prevail in the air and
they could slice a rock without damaging
the blade sharpness these swords were
made of crucial steel meaning steel made
with a different heating and cooling
techniques moreover they were made with
a mixture of iron mineral wood leaves
and coal however the specifications for
making these swords disappeared when the
last blacksmiths who made them died in
the year 1700 competence universe
stay in Madrid Spain states that they
have unveiled the secret to make these
swords in fact they have the patent to
forge steel swords with a high content
of carbon nevertheless there are still
debates by experts in metallurgy about
the real manufacturing of Damascus steel
number 8 the Voynich manuscript Wilfrid
Voynich a Lithuanian antiquarian of
Polish origin got a manuscript by an
anonymous author the content of this
manuscript is still unknown Voynich
spent his life trying to find out the
secrets of the document the book known
as the Voynich manuscript honoring
voyages name has 246 pages and it is
written in an alphabet that nobody has
been able to identify it is an
undecipherable language in 2009 carbon
dating technique was performed on this
manuscript
hence it found out that the manuscript
was from the 15th century this
manuscript has hundreds of drawings that
allow dividing the content of it into
sections such as botany biology and
astrology it also has miniatures of
naked women and water or walking in the
water and they are interacting by means
of tubes or capsules these miniatures
are very strange considering the age of
the document it has become the most
researched puzzle that has to be solved
number 7 the Antikythera mechanism
this corded brass object that seems
useless is actually a 2,000 years old
analog computer the Antikythera
mechanism was recovered from the bottom
of the sea in 1901 near Antikythera
island greece it is divided into 82
pieces the device is a complex clock
mechanism system made up of many brass
gears antiques experts have found out
that this system was used to calculate
the moon phases and the lunisolar
calendar
it could also forecast eclipses and be
used to plan the exact date of the
Panhellenic games such as Olympic at
critical games moreover it was also used
to show the planet movements known by
that time to study its mechanism a
special tomograph built for the
investigation of this ancient object the
similar technology was not developed
until the Scientific Revolution between
the 16th and 17th centuries so it's a
real mystery to know who made this
device and how its creator got the
necessary knowledge to make a futuristic
invention at that time number 6 Shang
hang seismograph present-day
seismographs have nothing to do with the
first earthquake detector in history
Zhang hang a Chinese scientist and an
astronomer from the East Han Dynasty
this seismoscope in the year
132 ad it is a copper vessel with dragon
heads aiming at the cardinal points
beneath the dragon heads
there are various toads with open mouths
when there was an earthquake a bronze
bar fell into one of the toads mouth
indicating where the earthquake had
taken place and this device is able to
detect earthquakes occurring 600
kilometers away some theorists believe
that it is a system based on a free
swinging pendulum driven by inertia
however the operation of this device is
one of the biggest mysteries in history
the original seismograph does not exist
anymore and most of its replications are
used just for decoration
there is a functional replica of this
device in the History Museum in Beijing
number five Ulfberht Sword, many tombs
from the Viking Age have been discovered
all over the north of Europe
archaeologists have found inside the
tombs a total of 171 Ulfberht Sword, these swords were made with
techniques that were very advanced for
that age they got their name from the
inscription plus Ulfberht on their
blades the meaning of this word is still
unknown these swords are made of 99.9%
pure metal which was free from slag also
having an almost perfect carbon balance
according to experts the technology to
make these swords was superior at that
time this technology did not appear but
800 years later in other regions it is
similar to the one used for making
Damascus steel in 2014 a 9th century
tomb was found in Scandinavia this tomb
had an Islamic inscription this finding
makes scientists think that there may be
a link between Viking swords and the
weapons used centuries later by the
Arabian militaries in the Crusades
however no evidence has validated this
coincidence number forms the iron pillar
of Delhi
time is a deadly enemy of ancient
monuments that causes maximum damage
that's why this iron pillar weighing 6
tons and 7.21 meters high which is not
rusted during more than 1600 years it is
still an engineering mystery located in
Delhi India the only clue about its
origin is the inscriptions on the metal
they can be perfectly seen after
centuries of exposure to the natural
environment many scientists think that
the mild weather in the area does not
affect this big iron mass others suggest
that phosphorus is a component of the
pillar and there is no sulphide and
manganese in its structure which could
contribute to the good condition of the
monument however all scientists agree
that this big iron monument is a living
testimony of the wisdom of India's
former inhabitants number three, The Phaistos Disc, Luigi Pernier, an Italian
archaeologists discovered the fastest
disc on the Greek island of Crete in
1908 this disc also known as the rosetta
stone of the Minoan civilization and
made from baked clay is 15 centimetres
in diameter and dates back to the late
Minoan Bronze Age it is engraved on both
sides with a spiral of 242 symbols the
real meanings of these symbols are still
unknown there are some theories about
the symbols they seem to be printed with
a kind of seal this fact makes
historians think that this is probably
one of the oldest printed documents in
existence or this object might have been
used as a seal itself and may be
considered the first printing attempt it
is also believed that this disc was a
musical score or even an asset inventory
a calendar or a game a true thing is
that present time experts consider it a
jigsaw puzzle
number two Roman dodecahedron despite
the fact Roman civilization has been
studied for centuries still it is full
of mysteries one of those mysteries is
the Roman dodecahedron it dates back 200
years ad it is a hollow object with 12
sides made up of brass or stone each
side has a pentagonal shape and a hole
in the center hundreds of these devices
have been found from Wales too hungry
especially in Germany France and Italy
its size varies between 4 centimeters to
11 centimeters however no document has
information about its existence or
purpose this is weird considering that
Roman civilization kept the records of
almost everything there is a belief that
these dodecahedron were used as candle
holders dice gauges for water pipes or
simply as a solid foundation to support
the Roman eagle symbol it is also
possible to think that these objects
were used for religious purposes or
fortune-telling there is no doubt that
this is a multi-purpose mysterious
object number one giant stone spheres
more than 500 pre-columbian stone
spheres were discovered in the Sierpe district,
in the south of Costa Rica in
1939 the size of the stones ranges from
30 to 257 and they weigh between two
kilos and 16 tonnes it was concluded
that Costa Rica's indigenous people used
advanced cutting and polishing
techniques to transform blocks gia rites
and igneous rock into spheres of the
perfect finish moreover it is believed
that a superior method to transport
these spheres was also used experts
state that these spheres are a mystery
not because of their construction but
because of what they represent nobody
has figured it out yet many of these
stones have been moved or exploited by
treasure hunters this situation has
become an obstacle for investigation
some of these stones were placed near
human and animal statues few data
suggests that this group of rocks my
been used as an astronomical calendar
but the only truth is that there are not
spheres like these in any other place on
this planet